Now that we've seen conditionals we can talk about this kind of odd topic truthiness and falseness or
truth and false values all that this is is that every value in JavaScript has an inherent truthiness
or false ness about it.
It doesn't mean it is truth or true or it is false.
There's only two values true and false that are actually true and false.
Those are the billions but every value has a truth or falsity ness to it.
And let me show you what I mean.
If we were to write a conditional like if let's make a variable called Mystery let's do let's mystery
equals five and then we'll add a conditional of if mystery just mystery not mystery equals anything
just.
If mystery will counsel that log.
Truth.
And then else we can control that log false see
I'm not sure if falsely is spelled like that or that's not really the technical term but anyway we are
just checking this single condition.
If mystery which is right now set to five if that is true thi this would print if it's not truth admitting
it's false See this footprint.
Let's see what we get we get truth.
So the number 5 is a truth value.
In fact every number that you could possibly choose except for zero is truth.
You can see zero is fallacy.
The only caveat to that is not a number which we've seen a couple of times that is also falsely so something
like a zero divided by zero is going to give us not a number.
Refreshing and we still see false see almost every single value in Javascript is truth.
Except for these right here.
So the actual value of false of course is false see zero as we just saw it is false see empty string
so there's no space in there it's just an empty string like this that is false see no undefined and
not a number.
Everything else excluding these everything else is truth.
Now why does this matter.
Why should you really care.
It's not just a little piece of trivia to know.
Often you'll see people use this strategy if some variable do something not mystery but something like
this.
If let's say current user or logged in user then console out log something like you are logged in.
Else console that log please log in.
OK so something like this is pretty common maybe not consoles out logging but displaying a certain page
showing the sign in button versus the sign out button.
We're just checking if a variable is truth.
So if we define let logged in user end it set to.
I don't know Thomas.
1 2 3.
We're going to see you are logged in.
But if it is not said to anything like undefined please logged in please log in or if it's set to know
it should be another option please log in.
Same thing if we had a string for somebodies name username we could write if user name and if that username
is still an empty string then that code would not run if it was anything else in that string it would
run.
So this is just a small side topic but you will see this pretty frequently.
Checking for a value we're not checking to see if it's equal to something in particular we're seeing
if it's truth which usually is a way of checking if something has content if it exists.
If it's not no undefined 0.
False.
Empty string or not a number.
Anything else will pass this condition.